.\"
.\" Simplified Chinese Man page for mkfs.wtfs
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2015 Chaos Shen
.\"
.\" This file is part of wtfs, What the fxck filesystem.  You may take
.\" the letter 'f' from, at your option, either 'fxck' or 'filesystem'.
.\"
.\" wtfs is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" wtfs is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with wtfs.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.\"*************************** title *******************************************
.TH MKFS.WTFS 8 2015-10-08 Linux "什么鬼文件系统工具"
.\"*************************** name ********************************************
.SH "名称"
mkfs.wtfs \- 创建一个什么鬼文件系统
.\"*************************** synopsis ****************************************
.SH "大纲"
\fBmkfs.wtfs\fR [\fI选项\fR] \fI设备\fR
.\"*************************** description *************************************
.SH "描述"
\fBmkfs.wtfs\fR 根据指定的\fI选项\fR，
在\fI设备\fR上创建一个什么鬼文件系统。
.PP
\fI设备\fR可以是一个块设备（例如 \fI/dev/sda4\fR）
或者一个常规文件（作为文件系统镜像）。
.\"*************************** options *****************************************
.SH "选项"
.TP
\fB\-f\fR, \fB\-\-fast\fR
执行快速格式化。这会跳过数据块的清零。
.TP
\fB\-q\fR, \fB\-\-quiet\fR
静默执行；stdout 不会有任何输出，但错误会被写到 stderr。
.TP
\fB\-F\fR, \fB\-\-force\fR
强制执行，即使\fI设备\fR已经挂载。
.TP
\fB\-i\fR, \fB\-\-imaps\fR=\fIIMAPS\fR
指定索引节点位图的个数为 \fIIMAPS\fR。有效值的范围是 1 到一个跟设备大小相关的值。如果 \fIIMAPS\fR 大于 1，则会加入最小数据块数的限制。如果未指定，则 \fBmkfs.wtfs\fR 会使用 1 作为默认值。
.TP
\fB\-L\fR, \fB\-\-label\fR=\fILABEL\fR
设置文件系统标签为 \fILABEL\fR。文件系统标签的最大长度为 32 字节（不含）。
.TP
\fB\-U\fR, \fB\-\-uuid\fR=\fIUUID\fR
设置文件系统 UUID 为 \fIUUID\fR。\fIUUID\fR 应该是 \fI8\-4\-4\-4\-12\fR 的格式，一共 36 个字符（包括 4 个连字符）。如果未指定，则 \fBmkfs.wtfs\fR 会自己生成一个随机的 UUID。
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
显示 \fBmkfs.wtfs\fR 的版本信息并退出。
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
显示帮助文本并退出。
.\"*************************** exit status *************************************
.SH "退出值"
\fBmkfs.wtfs\fR 返回 0 表示成功，或者 1 表示发生错误。
.\"*************************** bugs ********************************************
.SH "漏洞"
如果你发现任何漏洞，请在 GitHub（见下）上打开一个 issue 描述这个问题。
.\"*************************** availability ************************************
.SH "可获性"
\fBmkfs.wtfs\fR 是 wtfs 的一部分，可在 GitHub 
(https://github.com/chaosdefinition/wtfs) 上获得。
.\"*************************** see also ****************************************
.SH "参见"
.BR mkfs (8),
.BR mount (8)
