.\"
.\" Man page for mkfs.wtfs
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2015 Chaos Shen
.\"
.\" This file is part of wtfs, What the fxck filesystem.  You may take
.\" the letter 'f' from, at your option, either 'fxck' or 'filesystem'.
.\"
.\" wtfs is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" wtfs is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with wtfs.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.\"*************************** title *******************************************
.TH MKFS.WTFS 8 2015-10-08 Linux "What the fxck filesystem utils"
.\"*************************** name ********************************************
.SH NAME
mkfs.wtfs \- create a wtfs filesystem
.\"*************************** synopsis ****************************************
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBmkfs.wtfs\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR] \fIDEVICE\fR
.\"*************************** description *************************************
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBmkfs.wtfs\fR creates a wtfs filesystem on \fIDEVICE\fR with \fIOPTIONS\fR
specified.
.PP
The \fIDEVICE\fR can be a block device (e.g. \fI/dev/sda4\fR) or a regular file
(as a filesystem image).
.\"*************************** options *****************************************
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-f\fR, \fB\-\-fast\fR
Perform quick format. This will skip zeroing of data blocks.
.TP
\fB\-q\fR, \fB\-\-quiet\fR
Quiet execution; no output to stdout occurs at all, but errors will be written
to stderr.
.TP
\fB\-F\fR, \fB\-\-force\fR
Force execution even if the \fIDEVICE\fR is already mounted.
.TP
\fB\-i\fR, \fB\-\-imaps\fR=\fIIMAPS\fR
Specify the number of inode bitmaps to be \fIIMAPS\fR. A valid value ranges from
1 to a specific value relating to device size. If \fIIMAPS\fR is bigger than 1,
an extra limit of minimum number of data blocks will be added. If omitted,
\fBmkfs.wtfs\fR will use 1 as the default value.
.TP
\fB\-L\fR, \fB\-\-label\fR=\fILABEL\fR
Set the filesystem label as \fILABEL\fR. The maximum length of the filesystem
label is 32 bytes (not included).
.TP
\fB\-U\fR, \fB\-\-uuid\fR=\fIUUID\fR
Set the filesystem UUID as \fIUUID\fR. The \fIUUID\fR should be in the form of
\fI8\-4\-4\-4\-12\fR for a total of 36 characters (including 4 hyphens). If
omitted, \fBmkfs.wtfs\fR will generate a random UUID by itself.
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Display the version information of \fBmkfs.wtfs\fR and exit.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Display the help text and exit.
.\"*************************** exit status *************************************
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
\fBmkfs.wtfs\fR returns 0 indicating success, or 1 indicating an error occurred.
.\"*************************** bugs ********************************************
.SH BUGS
If you find any bug, please open an issue on GitHub (see blow) describing the
problem.
.\"*************************** availability ************************************
.SH AVAILABILITY
\fBmkfs.wtfs\fR is part of wtfs and is available from GitHub
(https://github.com/chaosdefinition/wtfs).
.\"*************************** see also ****************************************
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR mkfs (8),
.BR statfs.wtfs (8)
